So, welcome to
Resetting Your Unreal Project. So if you find yourself
in a situation like this, where you open your project, for example...
And we'll just let it open. It all seems to be OK,
and then, you click play and it just crashes and you can't work out
why. I want to show you how to reset your project, especially if you're going to start playing with pointers
and references and things, so let me show you step-by-step. So in this video,
we're going to tell you what to do if your Unreal solution keeps crashing.
Tell you how to delete all your temporary files. I'll tell you the order in which to reset
things and we'll go from there. So, and at the end I'll
challenge you to be doing this, so let me overview the steps and then I will
do the steps, and then, I'll recap the steps and then you can do it. So, we're going to
"check-out" or "Reset" to a working commit. We're going to delete our derived files and folders.
We're going to reopen Unreal from the launcher, and I'll explain why in a second,
then, regenerate our IDE project files. And the reason we need to reopen Unreal
at stage 3 is because, among other things, it regenerates the generated .h
files in the iIntermediate folder, and these are important for your IDE.
OK, so that's the plan! Let's see it in action and then I'll recap
the plan. So, my project doesn't work, it's broken now. How did I get it broken?
Well, if I make things look a little simpler here, I changed my commit.
I was somewhere else OK, so I've done some prototyping, some other work.
I changed to a different place. You may wonder, how would I go back in time
in my source control? How would I go back a few videos? Well, you either
Checkout, which goes back but leaves all your working changes, or
you reset. Generally you'd reset but it's a potentially destructive operation. I'm not going
to go through the details of Checkout and reset here, you can ask about it in the discussions or read about it on
the web. But let's say you've gone somewhere and it's broken. You need to go back,
so I'm going to go back to this video at this point
OK. And this point should work but it doesn't work right now, so how do I fix
that? The problem is that some of these files have changed and some others haven't,
because of what we're ignoring it's starting to feel like we have better just tracking everything
in version control. The problem is there are some really big folders in here, and you need to know how Unreal
works. So, let's go through the steps one at a time. Step number 1, check out our
reset tool working commit. Number 2, delete the derived
files and folder. So on a PC that's .vs, you'd skip that on a Mac.
Binaries, Build, Intermediate, and Saved,
they all need to go, the same on Mac and PC. The dot solution file or the dot Xcode
file on a Mac, and the VC.db on a PC.
So you ignore the top and bottom ones on a Mac, and everything else goes on a PC.
All of those things can be nuked. OK, now what's step 3?
It's to reopen Unreal, and when you reopen Unreal it's going to say I can't find
certain things. It'll talk about .dll's or the first .dll it comes across. Now, by the way, a
.dll is an object that has been compiled and is ready to use.
So it needs to recreate .dll's, Dynamic Link Libraries, but it also
importantly needs to recreate in this Intermediate folder. It needs to be
recreating a set of things called
generated .h files. You'll see them appear in here somewhere. It might be easiest just to search
your Intermediate folder for generated .h.
And here you go, PositionReport.generated.h! For all your classes you've
got generated .h files. It needs to recreate those because they are actually #included
by the engine for you in your scripts. So, we've opened the engine,
that's step 3 OK. Step 4 now let's you right-click in
a PC and say Generate Visual Studio project files, or on a Mac you do it from within
Unreal itself, as has been explained. OK,
so now you'll recreate in your project files, and we're nearly there at this
stage. You should actually find, once you've done that, that your solution does run
again, which is awesome! it's all fixed! Now, if
you want to be able to edit your solution, you've finally got to go back into
your IDE, opening Xcode or Visual Studio.
That will do a load of work now, because we nuked all its temporary files. So, it's
now going to rebuild itself. So, that's going to take a little
while, and when it finishes, everything should work fine. Let me show you a little example of this #Include
of a generated .h, while we're here. So, let's go to PositionReport.h for example.
Look at this, #include "PositionReport.generated.h".
OK, that happens all boiler plate code by the engine. Remember that's
in the Intermediate folder. If you want to know that for sure, just do a search, an
operating system search, as we just did a minute ago. Look where
they all are! All of these generated .h files, if we look at the path,
are...not all of them actually um, Yes, all of them.
The other bits it's finding inside these files, but the actual generating
.h files look where they are, they're all inside the Intermediate directory.
So, to recap the process while Visual Studio
goes ahead and rebuilds everything for me, it's like this. Let's just go back a step.
1). You "Check-out" or  "Reset" to a working commit. That
returns most of your folders, depending on what you're ignoring in your source control,
to a previous state that we're pretty confident works. OK, but it ignores all the
ignored folders, like the Intermediate, Build, Binaries, etc. 2). You
delete all derived files and folder, leaving Config, Content, and Source folders at
least and very importantly your .uproject file. All of those things
need to stay but all the other things that we've showed you before, the derived files, need to be nuked.
Then, you reopen Unreal from the Launcher or your .urpoject
file. Then, it's going to rebuild not only the .dll's but as I just said,
in the Intermediate folder, it's going to recreate all those generated .h files,
which you are going to need in your IDE. And then, you regenerate your IDE
project files, and then, finally you're ready to go. OK, that's just
a note about the generated .h and intermediates. So that is it,
that's what needs doing to reset a project when it goes topsy turvy, I think it
is what we'd say over here in England. So, what I want you to do now is actually try it
yourself. Now number 1, try resetting your solution. It's important you're confident
how this works; that's why I want you to do it. It's one of these things you'd put off, until it goes wrong,
but if in doubt at all, close everything which means your IDE and
Unreal. Take a .zip file of the entire folder,
just right click it and zip it up. Then, follow the steps on the previous slide,
and then finally, if you're in trouble, ask another student for
help. Please take a good backup, don't blame me if you break it, but I would like you to feel confident
that you can do the reset that I just did by following those steps. So go ahead,
pause the video, and do that now, and I will see you in the next video
because I've already showed you how to do it, because I think it's more important that you see it
first. So good luck, enjoy, share your success or horrible failures in the
discussions, and I'll see you later!